The party has appeared before the king. He is surrounded by his honour guard, seated on the throne with a bored expression. While the cleric is negotiating the terms of their quest, the rogue decides "I'm going to sneak up on the king and stab him in the back".
And what do you know, the little shit rolled pretty well on their Stealth check. What are you going to do now?

Perhaps the solution is to make the king pretty high level, making it unlikely for the rogue to succeed in his efforts. In a way, this is only kicking the can down the road; if the entire party decides; "Ok, I guess we're killing the king", then we are talking about a five versus one. This isn't in the kings favour no matter what level he is.

But of course, there are guards around the king! Doesn't this fix the issue? In a way, yes, because this makes an assassination attempt more dangerous and risky, simply because of the return amount of damage the guards can return. However, it is less of an obstruction then you might think. Remember, the parties goal isn't to eliminate everyone in the throne room, it is to eliminate the king. As soon as all of them have focused all their actions and abilities at the king and he falls, they are free to make an escape. They have achieved their goal and are no longer interested in the remaining guards.

The solution lies in embracing and experimenting with the abstraction that is hit points and creatures.

Wait a minute, creatures are an abstraction? That makes no sense, they pretty much represent a very concrete thing in the fictional space! The king is one creature, each of his guards is one creature etc...

That may be the cases, but consider other examples where the game stretched the abstraction a bit. For example; swarms. Imagine a swarm of Tiny rats assaulting the party! It could easily be a hundred or two hundred rats! Now image if the DM had to run *each and every rat as an individual creature*. It would be a nightmare. Besides, even when going through all that extra unsatisfying effort, the result wouldn't be that much more realistic. So, wisely, most DM's considered the entire group of rats as a single "creature". This packs all characteristics of the rat fight into a nice manageable chunk that doesn't cognitively overload the GM. You just need a few special rules to "simulate" the fact that this creature is made up off many smaller creatures (for example, maybe it is immune to piercing and slashing damages, as taking out a few rats won't have a meaningful impact on the entire group. Or maybe it takes up a certain amount of space, but it can move through any spice large enough to accommodate one individual rat and so on).

You can "scale up" this same principle and apply the abstraction on a larger scale. In the example of the throne room, the king and his guards count as one high level boss creature. The goal of the guards is to protect the king, so they will jump in front of slashes, spells and arrows in order to protect their monarch. Only the strike that takes this "creature" down to 0 HP is the one that actually kills the king.

You might intuitively object to this abstraction. Surely, an archer should be able to say "I aim for the king" and then take his shot? Perhaps. But consider this; would you do the same if the archer said "I aim for the monsters head" in another encounter? Surely, that is something that could happen in the fiction. However, it is in some ways a non-choice; if you could swat someone in the head and take them out in one shot, you obviously would. The monster on the other hand, obviously doesn't want that to happen. Instead of taking all the little decisions and hit locations and stuff into account, we roll that into the abstraction. *That is what the attack roll is for*. If you take the monster down to 0 HP, then your arrow did indeed strike it straight through the eye. If it didn't, it merely grazed the creature, who dodged out of the way at the last second.

The hit points of the creature represent its will, luck, skill and stamina in achieving its desired outcome, in this case; staying alive. For the players, it represents an obstacle to their goal (killing the creature and taking its stuff). It needn't be any different for the king and his guards, the single creature "boss monster". Its hit points represent their desired outcome, preventing the king from being assassinated. The whole group is united in this issue, so it makes sense to simulate it as if the king and his guards where a single creature. The hit points also represent the obstacle to the PC's goal (killing the king), except this time it is a fun and meaningful challenge, a risk seriously worth considering before the PC's engage in it, instead of a quick "break the campaign" weak point a single rogue with sneak attack can beget.

The kings status as a multigroup creature needn't be static of course. Perhaps during a public parade or tour, the king is an extremely high level creature, because all his guards are there and on edge for anyone trying anything funny. The party basically has no chance of slaying him during the parade.
In his throne room, the king might be a more level appropriate boss fight for the party, something the PC's would need to take seriously, but not otherwise impossible. Finally, in his private chambers, the king might not have any guards around him at all. His statblock is truly his statblock, a single creature. Notice that this adds a nice bit of narrative verisimilitude here (I wouldn't dare say realism); a party that is serious about assassinating the king would have more chance of success in his private chambers then when he is well guarded.

This presumes of course, that there are creatures with a lot of narrative weight behind them. This abstraction means to take into account that importance (in a similar way, PC's usually have more hit points than a faceless mook, they need a little more "plot armor" so as to not create an unsatisfying narrative). In games where this is not the case, you don't need to embrace the abstraction; the PC's might just actually step on a random landmine and die, same as any other creature. This can create fun games! Usually, whenever there is an imbalance in this amount of "plot armor" is where the results on the table can really get unsatisfying. Both the PC's and the king have high narrative importance, but that is not reflected in the mechanics, which treat the king as any random mook. For an interesting reflection on how "mook" PC can still provide for a satisfying game, consider [this article](https://www.chocolatehammer.org/?p=5773) on Chocolate Hammer.

Here are some possible levels of abstraction you can play with:
- Many tiny creatures as a swarm of medium or large size
- A small group of minions as a single creature
- A creature as a creature **(default)**
- A boss or elite monster as multiple smaller creatures (a mob of peasants, a king and his honour guard)

## Further reading
- For a detailed explanation of using multiple creature as one big creature, the [Book of Hordes](https://www.gmbinder.com/share/-LZWXq83Rk2jZNs7spok) is a fine starting point for 5e.
- You might also be interested in the Angry GM's [minion groups](https://theangrygm.com/more-grist-for-the-mill-minion-groups-in-dd-5e/) and his article on [D&D Boss Fights](https://theangrygm.com/return-of-the-son-of-the-dd-boss-fight-now-in-5e/)
